{"en":"The old lady was glad to be back at the block of flats where she lived. ^ ","ch":"老妇人回到了她居住的公寓楼， 心里很高兴。  "}
{"en":"Her shopping had tired her and her basket had grown heavier with every step of the way home. ^ ","ch":"去商店买东西把她搞得筋疲力尽；在回家的路上， 她每走一步， 就感到手里的篮子又重了一点。  "}
{"en":"In the lift her thoughts were on lunch and a good rest; ^ ","ch":"她乘上电梯后， 只想着午餐和好好休息一下。  "}
{"en":"but when she got out at her own floor,  both were forgotten in her sudden discovery that her front door was open. ^ ","ch":"但她到了自己的楼层走出电梯后， 就把这两件事忘了个干净， 因为她突然发现她家的大门开着。  "}
{"en":"She was thinking that she must reprimand her home help the next morning for such a monstrous piece of negligence, ^ ","ch":"她心想明天上午一定要好好训斥那个干家务的帮手， 她竟如此疏忽大意。  "}
{"en":"when she remembered that she had gone shopping after the home help had left and she knew that she had turned both keys in their locks. ^ ","ch":"但突然记起来了， 帮手是在她出去买东西之前走的， 她还记得曾用了两把钥匙把大门锁上了。  "}
{"en":"She walked slowly into the hall and at once noticed that all the room doors were open, ^ ","ch":"她慢慢地走进前厅， 立即发现所有的房门都敞开着，  "}
{"en":"yet following her regular practice she had shut them before going out. ^ ","ch":"而她记得在出门买东西前， 她按老规矩是把房门一一锁上的。  "}
{"en":"Looking into the drawing room,  she saw a scene of confusion over by her writing desk. ^ ","ch":"她往起居室里看去， 写字台边一片狼籍。  "}
{"en":"It was as clear as daylight then that burglars had forced an entry during her absence. ^ ","ch":"事情很清楚， 在她外出时， 窃贼曾闯进家门。  "}
{"en":"Her first impulse was to go round all the rooms looking for the thieves, ^ ","ch":"她第一个条件反射是到各个房间里搜寻一下窃贼，  "}
{"en":"but then she decided that at her age it might be more prudent to have someone with her, ^ ","ch":"但转念一想， 像她这个年纪， 最好是找个人一起去。  "}
{"en":"so she went to fetch the porter from his basement. ^ ","ch":"于是她到地下室去找看门的人。  "}
{"en":"By this time her legs were beginning to tremble,  so she sat down and accepted a cup of very strong tea,  while he telephoned the police. ^ ","ch":"这时她两腿累得开始发抖， 于是坐了下来， 喝了一杯浓茶。 与此同时， 看门的人给警察挂了电话。  "}
{"en":"Then,  her composure regained,  she was ready to set off with the porter's assistance to search for any intruders who might still be lurking in her flat. ^ ","ch":"此刻老妇人也镇定了下来， 准备在看门人的协助下搜寻可能仍躲藏在她房里的窍贼。  "}
{"en":"They went through the rooms,  being careful to touch nothing, ^ ","ch":"他俩搜遍这每一个房间， 小心翼翼地不接触任何东西，  "}
{"en":"as they did not want to hinder the police in their search for fingerprints. ^ ","ch":"因为他们怕妨碍警察寻找指纹。  "}
{"en":"She had lived in the flat for thirty years and was a veritable magpie at hoarding; ^ ","ch":"老妇人在这套公寓里住了30年， 她又是个名副其实的收藏家。  "}
{"en":"and it seemed as though everything she possessed had been tossed out and turned over and over. ^ ","ch":"看来她的每一件东西都被翻了出来， 并且被里里外外看了遍。  "}
{"en":"At least sorting out the things she should have discarded years ago was now being made easier for her. ^ ","ch":"这样一来， 她倒是容易将那些几年前就该扔掉的东西找出来了。  "}
{"en":"Then a police inspector arrived with a constable and she told them of her discovery of the ransacked flat. ^ ","ch":"过了一会儿， 一位巡官带着一名警察来了。 她向他们讲述了发现公寓遭劫的经过。  "}
{"en":"The inspector began to look for fingerprints,  while the constable checked that the front door locks had not been forced, ^ ","ch":"巡官开始搜寻指纹， 警察经检查发现大门锁头并无撬过的迹象。  "}
{"en":"thereby proving that the burglars had either used skeleton keys or entered over the balcony. ^ ","ch":"由此可以证明， 窍贼或者是用了万能钥匙， 或者是翻越阳台进来的。  "}
{"en":"but the inspector found a dirty red bundle that contained jewellery which the old lady said was not hers. ^ ","ch":"却发现了一个装有珠宝的、肮脏的红包袱。 老妇人说那不是她的。  "}
{"en":"So their entry into this flat was apparently not the burglars' first job that day and they must have been disturbed. ^ ","ch":"很明显， 闯进这套公寓的窃贼那天并不是首次作案， 而且他一定是受了惊吓。  "}
{"en":"The inspector then asked the old lady to try to check what was missing by the next day and advised her not to stay alone in the flat for a few nights. ^ ","ch":"巡官请老妇人在次日之前设法查清丢了些什么， 并劝她几夜之内不要独自一人在公寓过夜。  "}
{"en":"but since the porter agreed with him,  she rang up her daughter and asked for her help in what she described as a little spot of bother. ^ ","ch":"但既然看门人也同意他的意见， 她只得打电话向女儿求援， 说她碰到了一点儿小麻烦。  "}